my husband he's um not here and he still
hasn't turned up
he has dementia okay
i went for lunch my cousin and i were
supposed to meet at 12.
i had tried to phone him and he hadn't
answered
and when i got home he wasn't there i
suppose it was about
quarter to three and i thought i'd give
him an hour
and then i thought where on earth is he
i hesitated to call the police because i
didn't want to waste their time i just
thought that he was going to turn up but
he didn't
to just write me this trap's name
thank you oh john the urban environment
you know poses its own risks but in a
rural environment those risks are even
higher
you've got lots of hills you've got
rivers dips you know you
quite quickly can be out into the
wilderness
where you're much harder to find cases
where dementia's involved
their chances of survival diminish quite
quickly
he hasn't been seen since 11 o'clock
depending on how fit he is he could be
anywhere by now
[Music]
even with the complexities of dementia
somebody who's quite mobile can walk
quite far
it did feel surreal that all of these
people
and this helicopter were looking for my
husband you'll turn up
you don't know what the time is so
you'll realize when it starts to get
dark
i didn't want mum to know how worried i
was starting to get
he absolutely knows the difference
between day and evening and it would be
really out of character for him to be
out
in the dark can you get used to somebody
having dementia
[Music]
um
no you can't get used to it
how much fuel we've got left 15 minutes
really
yeah we've got about an hour and a
half's flight time
and um if we're starting to get low on
fuel we need to
make a decision about leaving i don't
think they realize how little time we
have left on scene
police emergency are you looking for an
elderly man with the police helicopter
we're working on the farm down the
parkway this old man is in the field
been led on the straw for hours
we don't want him to get on the railway
you see because of the main line
yeah so let's pick up the rubber line
and let's just very slowly go along and
see if we can find anybody
they're talking about hedges near the
railway line or yeah obviously we're
going that way
[Music]
he's literally about 10 minutes through
right now so stop stop
and go back to the uh
[Music]
it's him he's alright
it is expensive you know our budget's 50
million pounds a year but
we find a couple of hundred people a
year that that we're confident would not
have been found about a helicopter
and what price do you put on somebody's
life
mum was really cross with him only for
about 30 seconds but yeah
she was i think she wanted to give him a
big kiss and then kill him
i think they think you're knackered i
don't i do think you're dancing
you are done tomorrow today i'm
better now we know where you are you've
been gone hours
mom's been having kittens they've got
the helicopter out tonight
i was watching i wish you'd waved
he'll say to me
i'm a burden to you
but i don't see him as that i hope we
can
see all the grandchildren grow up and i
and i hope john is around and still
able to enjoy recognizing their faces
for
quite a while and doesn't go walkabout
anymore
you